[ESS][8.18] Updating customized prebuilt rules (#6568)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/prebuilt-rules-update-modified-unmodified.asciidoc

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/prebuilt-rules-update-diff-advanced.png[Prebuilt rule comparison,85%]
+

. From the *Rule Updates* tab, do one of the following to update prebuilt rules:
+
* Update all available rules: Click *Update all*. If any rules have conflicts, you will be prompted to take <<resolve-reduce-rule-conflicts,additional action>>.
* Update a single rule without conflicts: Click *Update rule* for that rule. 
* Update multiple rules: Select the rules and click *Update _x_ selected rule(s)*. If any rules have conflicts, you will be prompted to take additional action.
+
[TIP] 
====

To find specific rules to update:

* Use the **Modified/Unmodified** drop-down menu to only display modified or unmodified prebuilt rules.
* Use the search bar and *Tags* filter to find the rules you want to update. For example, filter by `OS: Windows` if your environment only includes Windows endpoints. For more on tag categories, refer to <<prebuilt-rule-tags>>.

====

[float]
[[rule-field-update-statuses]]
=== Understand rule field update statuses

This table describes statuses that might appear for rule fields being updated.  

> [cols="2"]

Reviewer: Adding a table header would improve its accessibility.

Author: Table header as in column names?

Reviewer: Yep!

Author: Yeah, I agree. I'll add that into this PR and the corresponding one for 9.0 and Serverless.

Author: Table headers (finally) added in [c852c32](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6568/commits/c852c3255fff5db52cae06d0ac114397396434f2).

[[prebuilt-rules-update-modified-unmodified]]
== Update modified and unmodified Elastic prebuilt rules

.Requirements
[sidebar]
--
You must have an https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions/cloud[Enterprise] subscription to access this feature. If you have a Platinum subscription or lower, follow the guidelines in <<update-prebuilt-rules>> instead.
--

This page provides instructions for updating modified and unmodified prebuilt rules. You can also find information about <<rule-field-update-statuses,statuses>> or <<resolve-reduce-rule-conflicts,conflicts>> that you might encounter when updating rules. 

To update rules:

. Find *Detection rules (SIEM)* in the navigation menu or by using the {kibana-ref}/introduction.html#kibana-navigation-search[global search field].
. In the *Rules* table, select the *Rule Updates* tab.
+
NOTE: The *Rule Updates* tab doesn't appear if all your installed prebuilt rules are up to date.
+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/prebuilt-rules-update.png[The Rule Updates tab on the Rules page]

Reviewer 2: This screenshot is a bit outdated now with the new filters on the update table, would be nice to get a new one, maybe including the "modified" and "conflict" columns

Author: Good idea - updated in [a503d53](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6568/commits/a503d53e214029b000e7a5fbb79c1d37c1405c16). Thanks!

. (Optional) To examine the details of a rule's latest version before you update it, select the rule name. This opens the rule update flyout, where you can: 

** Preview incoming updates: Select the *Elastic update overview* tab to view rule changes field by field, or the *JSON view* tab to view changes for the entire rule in JSON format. 
+

> Both tabs display side-by-side comparisons of the *Current rule* (what you currently have installed) and the *Elastic update* version (what you can choose to install). Deleted characters are highlighted in red; added characters are highlighted in green.

Author: Good catch, I'll remove it, thanks.

> Both tabs display side-by-side comparisons of the *Current rule* (what you currently have installed) and the *Elastic update* version (what you can choose to install). Deleted characters are highlighted in red; added characters are highlighted in green.

Author: Removed in [c80ed84](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6568/commits/c80ed84147942c61733ae900579ff964e54275e0).

+
** Compare different versions of a rule field: Use the **Diff view** drop-down menu to compare different versions of a rule field. For example, compare the changes that you made to the current version of the field with changes that will be applied from the incoming Elastic update.
+
NOTE: If you haven't updated the rule in a while, its original version might be unavailable for comparison. Instead, you will only have access to the rule's current version and the incoming Elastic update. You can avoid this by updating prebuilt rules more frequently. 

** Check the update status: View the status of the entire rule update and for <<rule-field-update-statuses,each field that's being changed>>. 

** Address update conflicts: Find and address conflicts that <<resolve-reduce-rule-conflicts, need additional attention>>. 

** Edit the final update: Change the update that will be applied to the field when you update the rule. To change the update, go to the *Final update* section, make your changes, and then save them.
+

> IMPORTANT: Elastic updates containing a rule type change cannot be edited. Before updating the rule, duplicate it if you need to record changes that you made to other rule fields. 

Reviewer 3: suggestion: "duplicate it if you need to record changes that you made to other rule fields. " -> duplicate it if you need to record changes that you made to the rule fields.

Author: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Elastic updates containing a rule type change cannot be edited. Before updating the rule, duplicate it if you need to record changes that you made to the rule fields. 
```

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/prebuilt-rules-update-diff-advanced.png[Prebuilt rule comparison,85%]
+

. From the *Rule Updates* tab, do one of the following to update prebuilt rules:
+

> NOTE: You can still bulk-update rules with auto-resolved conflicts, but reviewing them from the rule update flyout is safer. 

Author: Made some changes in [446f504](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6568/commits/446f5049afc16ecc25dce4fa31ee16cced593c86). Let me know if it's better or still needs more work.

Further action is not required for the field. It is ready to be updated.

TIP: You can still change the final field update, if needed. To do so, make your changes in the *Final update* section and save them.

| *Review required*
a| Displays when Elastic auto-resolves a conflict between the current field value and the value from the incoming Elastic update. 

You must accept or edit the field's final update and save the changes. Refer to <<resolve-reduce-rule-conflicts>> to learn more about auto-resolved conflicts and how to reduce future conflicts.

| *Action required*
a| Displays when Elastic could not auto-resolve the conflict between the current field value and the value from the incoming Elastic update. 

You must manually set and save the field's final update. Refer to <<resolve-reduce-rule-conflicts>> to learn more about conflicts that need manual fixes and how to reduce future conflicts.

|===

[float]
[[resolve-reduce-rule-conflicts]]
=== Resolve and reduce update conflicts

Keeping prebuilt rules up to date might help you minimize the frequency and complexity of conflicts that occur during rule updates.  

> When a conflict does happen, Elastic attempts to resolve it and will suggest a fix for your review. This is called an _auto-resolved conflict_. You can still update rules with auto-resolved conflicts, but we recommend that you carefully review them from the rule update flyout first. 

Author: Just making some minor edits to align the style:

```suggestion
When a conflict does happen, Elastic attempts to resolve it and will suggest a fix for your review. This is called an _auto-resolved conflict_. You can still update rules with auto-resolved conflicts, but doing this for multiple rules in bulk is risky and can sometimes lead to lost rule modifications and other issues. Instead, we recommend that you carefully review each rule with auto-resolved conflicts from the rule update flyout first.
```
